Add support for Bedrock Rerank API #9027 (#9029)
opensearch-project/documentation-website: _ml-commons-plugin/tutorials/reranking-bedrock.md

---
layout: default
title: Reranking search results with Amazon Bedrock models
parent: Tutorials
nav_order: 32
---

# Reranking search results using models hosted on Amazon Bedrock

A [reranking pipeline]({{site.url}}{{site.baseurl}}/search-plugins/search-relevance/reranking-search-results/) can rerank search results, providing a relevance score for each document in the search results with respect to the search query. The relevance score is calculated by a cross-encoder model. 

> This tutorial illustrates using the [Amazon Bedrock Rerank API](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/bedrock/latest/APIReference/API_agent-runtime_Rerank.html) to rerank results using a model hosted on Amazon Bedrock. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This tutorial illustrates using the [Amazon Bedrock Rerank API](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/bedrock/latest/APIReference/API_agent-runtime_Rerank.html) to rerank search results using a model hosted on Amazon Bedrock. 
```

                "textDocument": {
                    "text": "Washington, D.C. (also known as simply Washington or D.C., and officially as the District of Columbia) is the capital of the United States. It is a federal district.",
                },
                "type": "TEXT"
            },
            "type": "INLINE"
        },
        {
            "inlineDocumentSource": {
                "textDocument": {
                    "text": "Capital punishment (the death penalty) has existed in the United States since beforethe United States was a country. As of 2017, capital punishment is legal in 30 of the 50 states."
                },
                "type": "TEXT"
            },
            "type": "INLINE"
        },        
    ]
)

results = response["results"]
print(json.dumps(results, indent=2))
```
{% include copy.html %}

The reranked results are ordered by the highest score:

```json
[
  {
    "index": 2,
    "relevanceScore": 0.7711548805236816
  },
  {
    "index": 0,
    "relevanceScore": 0.0025114635936915874
  },
  {
    "index": 1,
    "relevanceScore": 2.4876489987946115e-05
  },
  {
    "index": 3,
    "relevanceScore": 6.339210358419223e-06
  }
]
```

> To sort the results by the index, use the following code:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To sort the results by index, use the following code:
```

```python
print(json.dumps(sorted(results, key=lambda x: x['index']),indent=2))
```

> The results sorted by the index:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The following are the results sorted by index:
```

  },
  "parameters": {
    "service_name": "bedrock",
    "endpoint": "bedrock-agent-runtime",
    "region": "your_bedrock_model_region_like_us-west-2",
    "api_name": "rerank",
    "model_id": "amazon.rerank-v1:0"
  },
  "actions": [
    {
      "action_type": "PREDICT",
      "method": "POST",
      "url": "https://${parameters.endpoint}.${parameters.region}.amazonaws.com/${parameters.api_name}",
      "headers": {
        "x-amz-content-sha256": "required",
        "content-type": "application/json"
      },
      "pre_process_function": "connector.pre_process.bedrock.rerank",
      "request_body": """
        {
          "queries": ${parameters.queries},
          "rerankingConfiguration": {
            "bedrockRerankingConfiguration": {
              "modelConfiguration": {
                "modelArn": "arn:aws:bedrock:${parameters.region}::foundation-model/${parameters.model_id}"
              }
            },
            "type": "BEDROCK_RERANKING_MODEL"
          },
          "sources": ${parameters.sources}
        }
      """,
      "post_process_function": "connector.post_process.bedrock.rerank"
    }
  ]
}
```
{% include copy-curl.html %}

> If using the Amazon OpenSearch Service, you can provide an IAM role ARN that allows access to the Amazon Bedrock service. For more information, see [AWS documentation](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/opensearch-service/latest/developerguide/ml-amazon-connector.html). Use the following request to create a connector:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If you are using Amazon OpenSearch Service, you can provide an AWS Identity and Access Management (IAM) role Amazon Resource Name (ARN) that allows access to Amazon Bedrock. For more information, see the [AWS documentation](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/opensearch-service/latest/developerguide/ml-amazon-connector.html). Use the following request to create a connector:
```

                    "text": "The Commonwealth of the Northern Mariana Islands is a group of islands in the Pacific Ocean. Its capital is Saipan."
                },
                "type": "TEXT"
            },
            "type": "INLINE"
        },
        {
            "inlineDocumentSource": {
                "textDocument": {
                    "text": "Washington, D.C. (also known as simply Washington or D.C., and officially as the District of Columbia) is the capital of the United States. It is a federal district."
                },
                "type": "TEXT"
            },
            "type": "INLINE"
        },
        {
            "inlineDocumentSource": {
                "textDocument": {
                    "text": "Capital punishment (the death penalty) has existed in the United States since beforethe United States was a country. As of 2017, capital punishment is legal in 30 of the 50 states."
                },
                "type": "TEXT"
            },
            "type": "INLINE"
        }
    ]
  }
}
```
{% include copy-curl.html %}

The connector `pre_process_function` transforms the input into the format required by the Predict API `parameters`.

> By default, the Amazon Bedrock Rerank API output has the following format:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
By default, the Amazon Bedrock Rerank API output is formatted as follows:
```

```json
[
  {
    "index": 2,
    "relevance_score": 0.7711548724998493
  },
  {
    "index": 0,
    "relevance_score": 0.0025114635138098534
  },
  {
    "index": 1,
    "relevance_score": 2.4876490010363496e-05
  },
  {
    "index": 3,
    "relevance_score": 6.339210403977635e-06
  }
]
```

> The connector `post_process_function` transforms the model's output into a format that the [Reranker processor](https://opensearch.org/docs/latest/search-plugins/search-pipelines/rerank-processor/) can interpret, and orders the results by index. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The connector `post_process_function` transforms the model's output into a format that the [Reranker processor](https://opensearch.org/docs/latest/search-plugins/search-pipelines/rerank-processor/) can interpret and orders the results by index. 
```

> The response contains four `similarity` outputs. For each `similarity` output, the `data` array contains a relevance score of each document against the query. The `similarity` outputs are provided in the order of the input documents; the first similarity result pertains to the first document:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The response contains four `similarity` outputs. For each `similarity` output, the `data` array contains a relevance score for each document against the query. The `similarity` outputs are provided in the order of the input documents; the first similarity result pertains to the first document:
```

          "data": [
            6.3392104e-06
          ]
        }
      ],
      "status_code": 200
    }
  ]
}
```

## Step 2: Create a reranking pipeline

To create a reranking pipeline, use the following steps.

### Step 2.1: Ingest test data

Use the following request to ingest data into your index:

```json
POST _bulk
{ "index": { "_index": "my-test-data" } }
{ "passage_text" : "Carson City is the capital city of the American state of Nevada." }
{ "index": { "_index": "my-test-data" } }
{ "passage_text" : "The Commonwealth of the Northern Mariana Islands is a group of islands in the Pacific Ocean. Its capital is Saipan." }
{ "index": { "_index": "my-test-data" } }
{ "passage_text" : "Washington, D.C. (also known as simply Washington or D.C., and officially as the District of Columbia) is the capital of the United States. It is a federal district." }
{ "index": { "_index": "my-test-data" } }
{ "passage_text" : "Capital punishment (the death penalty) has existed in the United States since beforethe United States was a country. As of 2017, capital punishment is legal in 30 of the 50 states." }
```
{% include copy-curl.html %}

### Step 2.2: Create a reranking pipeline

> Create a pipeline for reranking using the Amazon Bedrock reranking model:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Create a reranking pipeline using the Amazon Bedrock reranking model:
```

```json
PUT /_search/pipeline/rerank_pipeline_bedrock
{
    "description": "Pipeline for reranking with Bedrock rerank model",
    "response_processors": [
        {
            "rerank": {
                "ml_opensearch": {
                    "model_id": "your_model_id_created_in_step1"
                },
                "context": {
                    "document_fields": ["passage_text"]
                }
            }
        }
    ]
}
```
{% include copy-curl.html %}

> If you provide multiple field names in `document_fields`, the values of all fields are first concatenated and then reranking is performed.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If you provide multiple field names in `document_fields`, the values of all fields are first concatenated, after which reranking is performed.
```

        "highlight": {
          "passage_text": [
            "<strong>The</strong> Commonwealth <strong>of</strong> <strong>the</strong> Northern Mariana Islands <strong>is</strong> a group <strong>of</strong> islands in <strong>the</strong> Pacific Ocean.",
            "Its <strong>capital</strong> <strong>is</strong> Saipan."
          ]
        }
      },
      {
        "_index": "my-test-data",
        "_id": "4",
        "_score": 6.3392104e-06,
        "fields": {
          "passage_text": [
            "Capital punishment (the death penalty) has existed in the United States since beforethe United States was a country. As of 2017, capital punishment is legal in 30 of the 50 states."
          ]
        },
        "highlight": {
          "passage_text": [
            "<strong>Capital</strong> punishment (<strong>the</strong> death penalty) has existed in <strong>the</strong> United States since beforethe United States",
            "As <strong>of</strong> 2017, <strong>capital</strong> punishment <strong>is</strong> legal in 30 <strong>of</strong> <strong>the</strong> 50 states."
          ]
        }
      }
    ]
  },
  "profile": {
    "shards": []
  }
}
```

> You reuse the same query by specifying the `query_text_path` instead of `query_text`:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can reuse the same query by specifying the `query_text_path` instead of `query_text`:
```
